# CDF Interoperability SIG Meetings

[![HacmKD documents](https://hackmd.io/badge.svg)](https://hackmd.io/HuufSDMaTPyb3qxkyBKg3A?edit)

## Quick links

* [Logistics](#Logistics)
* [Meeting Recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG)
* [Agenda and Notes](#Agenda-and-Notes)
    * [2021-08-05 Meeting](#August-5-2021)
    * [2021-07-15 Meeting](#July-15-2021) - **Cancelled**
    * [2021-07-01 Meeting](#July-1-2021) - **Cancelled**
    * [2021-06-24 BoF SIG Interoperability](#June-24-2021-SIG-Interoperability-BoF)
    * [2021-06-17 Meeting](#June-17-2021)
    * [2021-06-03 Meeting](#June-3-2021)
    * [2021-05-20 Meeting](#May-20-2021)
    * [2021-05-06 Meeting](#May-6-2021)
    * [2021-04-15 Meeting](#April-15-2021)
    * [2021-04-01 Meeting](#April-1-2021)
    * [2021-03-18 Meeting](#March-18-2021)
    * [2021-03-04 Meeting](#March-4-2021)
    * [2021-02-18 Meeting](#February-18-2021)
    * [2021-02-04 Meeting](#February-4-2021)
    * [2021-01-21 Meeting](#January-21-2021)
    * [2021-01-07 Meeting](#January-7-2021)

## Logistics

* **Meeting notes on HackMD.io**: https://hackmd.io/@cdf-sig-interoperability/ry3TTB5DL
* **When**: First and third Thursdays at 15:00UTC (*See your timezone [here](https://time.is/1500_in_UTC)*).
* **Zoom Bridge**: https://zoom.us/j/827082528?pwd=RlN5OUZtVVBuZGZRY0NBRnZyZ0NJQT09
* **Zoom International dial-in numbers**: https://zoom.us/zoomconference
* **Meeting Recordings**: [CDF Youtube Channel SIG Interoperability Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG)
* **CDF Public Calendar**: [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_mhf0kmgedn67ihni8r129avp24%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FLos_Angeles)
* **Past Presentations in CDF Presentations Repository**: https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/sig-interoperability
* **Presentation Schedule**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Owg_I52WEXzqF8g_lX6OTdwbHkH4Z2-7TBA7eCSVMqY/edit
* **2020 Meeting Minutes**: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/meetings_2020.md

## Agenda and Notes

Meeting agenda and notes are kept on [HackMD.io](https://hackmd.io/@cdf-sig-interoperability/ry3TTB5DL) where everyone can add new topics to the agenda for upcoming meetings or take notes during the meetings. Please click edit button to edit the document.

If you are looking for 2020 minutes of meetings, please take a look at [Meetings 2020 document](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/meetings_2020.md) in SIG Interoperability repository on GitHub.

### August 5, 2021

#### Participants
* Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
* Mattias Linnér , Ericsson
* Kara de la Marck, CloudBees
* Matty Noble, AWS
* Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev/Zuul
* Saif Ul Islam
* Tracy Miranda, CDF

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* CDF Jenkins-themed Newsletter for September on “Paving the way for Jenkins interoperability in the Cloud”. 
    * Submissions are open and welcome!
    * The articles will be posted on the cd.foundation blog and the best ones will be included in the newsletter.
    * Content Deadline: Friday, August 20
    * Format: GDoc
    * Length: Depends on the type of article, some have more text, some more images, some more code. Trust your judgement.
    * Submit here: https://cd.foundation/cdf-blog-submission-form/ 
* Recap of cdCon, All
        * Questions/comments from BoF
        * Metadata standardization
        * Why do we need to put effort on interoperability
        * Policy
        * cdCon Recordings on Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MQU4fKhau1w&list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9TWsV-Jz8ARSt1ko0Yd36ah
* Status of the Interoperability Whitepaper, All
    * Whitepaper draft: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Bgr6EHhW4wUTphU8xyMg87qzSee43PEA_gGdMnPHq9Q/edit
* Standardized Metadata, All
    * Pick up where we left off
    * The original HackMD document which is now archived: https://hackmd.io/BYbkuR8uSlKt_w7Y4KE1OQ
    * Work will continue as GitHub Discussion on SIG Interoperability repo: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/discussions
    * CISQ: https://www.it-cisq.org/software-bill-of-materials/index.htm
* Supply Chain Security 
    * https://events.linuxfoundation.org/supplychainsecuritycon-north-america/
* Open Discussion on Next/New Topics, All
    * Any topics we should start talking about
    * SIG Roadmap: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/roadmap.md
    * We may look at the roadmap and see where we are at, what we missed, what we achieved, and refresh/update it accordingly
    * Slack GitHub Discussions integration?
* CDF Booth at KubeCon NA
    * It may be possible to do the booth duty virtually
    * More info/link TBD
* CDF Public Calendar
    * https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_mhf0kmgedn67ihni8r129avp24@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/Los_Angeles
* \<addme\>

#### Action Items
* ~~Fatih to check with Jennifer Crowley et al to see if BoF schedule can be adjusted to minimize conflicts~~
* ~~Fatih and Steve to start a discussion around selected area(s)/topic(s) as GitHub discussions~~
    * Candidate is File Information from SPDX Specification: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/4-file-information/
* Matty to start a new discussion on other metadata standardization efforts, more specifically in-toto
* Tracy M to find about CISQ Software Bill of Materials
* \<addme\>

### July 15, 2021

**Cancelled**

### July 1, 2021

**Cancelled**

### June 24, 2021 SIG Interoperability BoF

#### Agenda and Notes
* Welcome and the format of BoF, Fatih Degirmenci
* Who is who, All
* Integration vs Interoperability and SIG Interoperability, Kara de la Marck
    * Both terms used to describe the openness of a system
    * Often used synonymously, they have significant differences
    * Integration: combining applications to function together. Don't necessarily have common interfaces and often use different data formats.
    * This means glue code => hard to maintain, often results in coupling.
    * Interoperability: open interfaces, enabling controled and defined access to services from a different application or system.
    * If interface is well defined and openly available, then multiple providers  can implement the service in a known way and it can be consumed using the defined interface.
    * Client A can switch to provider B or C with no failures.
    * Well defined, open interfaces enable interoperability by enabling both access and multiple implementations.
    * Users have a choice on which implementation to consume and can switch between them with no failures.
    * Interoperability in CI/CD context:
        * pipeline standardization/languages
        * connecting/integrating pipelines
        * pipeline data for traceability/visualization
        * events in CI/CD
* Open Discussion, All

### June 17, 2021

**Meeting is cancelled.**

### June 3, 2021

#### Participants
* Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
* Steve Taylor (DeployHub/Ortelius)
* Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)
* Mattias Linnér (Ericsson)
* Andrea Frittoli (IBM)
* Emil Bäckmark (Ericsson)
* Tracy Ragan (DeployHub/Ortelius)
* Gopinath Rebala (OpsMx)
* Anders Eknert (Styra)
* Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
* Jeremy Stanley (OpenDev/Zuul) 

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* cdCon SIG Interoperability BoF Session
    * June 24, 11:25am EDT: https://sched.co/j07e
    * All BoF Sessions: https://cdcon2021.sched.com/overview/type/BoF+Sessions
* SPDX File Information, All
    * File information in SPDX Spec: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/4-file-information/
* Note about the CNCF Operations doc
    * The doc is available on: https://github.com/cncf/tag-app-delivery/blob/public-comment/operator-wg/whitepaper/Operator-WhitePaper_v1-0.md
    * It is currently under public comment period
* CNCF App Delivery pod tato Head
    * https://github.com/cncf/podtato-head
* Open Policy Agent Presentation, Anders Eknert

#### Action Items
* Fatih to check with Jennifer Crowley et al to see if BoF schedule can be adjusted to minimize conflicts
* Fatih and Steve to start a discussion around selected area(s)/topic(s) as GitHub discussions
    * Candidate is File Information from SPDX Specification: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/4-file-information/
* ~~Fatih to enable GitHub discussions for sig-interoperability repository~~
    * Done: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/discussions
* ~~Kara to help out reaching out to OPA community~~

#### Meeting Recording
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m7Gt_3JazNs

### May 20, 2021

**Meeting is cancelled.**

### May 6, 2021

#### Participants
* Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
* Steve Taylor (DeployHub/Ortelius)
* Mattias Linnér (Ericsson)
* Oliver Nocon (SAP)
* Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)
* Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
* Jeremy Stanley (OpenDev/Zuul)
* Emil Bäckmark (Ericsson) [just first few minutes]

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* Standardized Metadata, All
    * https://hackmd.io/BYbkuR8uSlKt_w7Y4KE1OQ
* IEEE Standard for DevOps, All
    * [Standard is available for purchase](https://standards.ieee.org/standard/2675-2021.html)
* Policy Driven CI/CD, All
    * Discussion on the [latest contributions](https://hackmd.io/__6IAnVuR8C8mPD--XMbWg?view)
    * CDF End User Council Plan is available here: https://github.com/cdfoundation/end-user-council/blob/main/End%20User%20Council%20Plan%202021.pdf

#### Action Items
* Fatih and Steve to start a discussion around selected area(s)/topic(s) as GitHub discussions
    * Candidate is File Information from SPDX Specification: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/4-file-information/
* Fatih to enable GitHub discussions for sig-interoperability repository
    * Done: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/discussions
* Kara to help out reaching out to OPA community

#### Meeting Recording
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fNRiLtQFhkI

### April 15, 2021

#### Participants
* Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
* Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
* Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)
* Mattias Linnér (Ericsson)
* Kate Stewart (LF)
* Emil Bäckmark (Ericsson)
* Andrea Frittoli (IBM)
* Alois Reitbauer (Dynatrace)
* Gale McCommons (LF)
* Tracy Miranda (CDF)
* Gopinath Rebala (OpsMX)
* Tracy Ragan (DeployHub/Ortelius)
* Ola (Telus)
* Victor Martinez (Elastic)
* Steve Taylor (DeployHub/Ortelius)

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* Next SIG Interoperability Meeting, All
    * Next meeting is on May 6, 2021.
    * KubeCon CloudNativeCon Europe 2021 takes place between May 4-7, 2021.
    * We will meet as usual and see how many joins
* cdCon Schedule Announcement, All
    * [cdCon Schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/program/schedule/)
    * [GitOps Summit Schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/gitops-summit/program/schedule/)
    * [Spinnaker Summit Schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/spinnaker-summit/program/schedule/)
    * [Registration Link](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/register/)
* SPDX Presentation and Discussion, Kate Stewart, All
    * SBOM (Software Bill of Materials) -- formal record of details and supply chain relationships of the components used in building software. Anything running on a system you should be able to represent and be able to query that representation.
    * https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/7-relationships-between-SPDX-elements/
    * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues
    * https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YNtXPRGuj9hri_rGid_E7LZ9OODcNASbdNmNOOOzFAk/edit#slide=id.gd25d926f37_0_155
* Policy Driven CI/CD, All
    * Discussion on the [latest contributions](https://hackmd.io/__6IAnVuR8C8mPD--XMbWg?view)
 
#### Action Items
* ~~Emil B to add notes on mandatory, optional data and digest to artifact metadata document. *Done, comments added to the metadata document.*~~

#### Meeting Recording
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pW7_x9nWC7s

### April 1, 2021

#### Participants
* Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)
* Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
* Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
* Steve Taylor (DeployHub/Ortelius)
* Oliver Nocon (SAP)
* Tracy Miranda (CDF)
* Andrea Frittoli (IBM)
* Emil Bäckmark (Ericsson)
* Vincent Behar (Dailymotion)
* Tracy Ragan (DeployHub/Ortelius)

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* Standardized Metadata, All
    * Discussion on [Artifact Metadata](https://hackmd.io/BYbkuR8uSlKt_w7Y4KE1OQ?view#Artifacts) contributed by Steve T
    * ST: Summarizes the contribution he made for artifact metadata
    * Collaboration with [SPDX](https://github.com/spdx)
    * FD: [Announcement of SPDX Submission to ISO](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/spdx-specification-becomes-the-second-iso-iec-jtc-1-submission-from-jdf/)
    * FD: [Draft Spec Preview](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:5962:dis:ed-1:v1:en)
    * FD: [SPDX Topic in LF Spring Member Meeting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DrRJXi5aGuI&t=780s)
    * ST: Shares his thoughts on SPDX Version 1.2. Version 2 is little bit harder.
    * TM: SPDX community is working on Version 3. Related work such as SBOM is rolling under SPDX.
    * TM: We could bring the perspective from CI/CD domain.
    * FD: Kate Stewart from SPDX will join to SIG Interoperability Meeting on April 15th.
* DORA and SPACE metrics with Jenkins X, Vincent Behar
    * [More on Nicole Forsgren's SPACE metrics](https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3454124)
    * See [Vincent's recent presentation at Jenkins X Office Hours](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ncxVtltXgno)
    * [Jenkins X doc for CD Indicators](https://jenkins-x.io/v3/admin/guides/observability/cd-indicators/)
    * [Jenkins X CD Indicators Collector (github repo)](https://github.com/jenkins-x/cd-indicators)
* Policy Driven CI/CD, All
    * Postponed to one of the upcoming meetings.
    * Discussion on the [latest contributions](https://hackmd.io/__6IAnVuR8C8mPD--XMbWg?view)
 
#### Action Items
* ~~Steve T to start the work on artifact metadata and bring example from Ortelius~~
* ~~Fatih D and Tracy M to update SIG Interopereability meeting time to 15:00UTC.~~
* Emil B to add notes on mandatory, optional data and digest to artifact metadata document. *Done, comments added to the metadata document.*

#### Meeting Recording
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-YPPa-wrTo8

### March 18, 2021

#### Participants
* Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)
* Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
* Oliver Nocon (SAP)
* Mattias Linnér (Ericsson)
* Emil Bäckmark (Ericsson)
* Jeremy Stanley (OpenDev/Zuul)
* Tracy Miranda (CDF)
* Terry Cox (Bootstrap)
* Andrea Frittoli (IBM)
* Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
* Andreas Grimmer (Dynatrace)
* Dina Graves Portman (Google)
* Gareth Evans (CloudBees)

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* Daylight Saving Time Changes Check, All
    * US@March 14th, Europe@March 28th
    * Meeting time on April 1st?
    * https://time.is/1600_1_April_2021_in_UTC
    * SIG Interoperability switches to 15:00UTC for summer.
* [PR to add CD definitions](https://github.com/cdfoundation/glossary/pull/10) (from Christie who can't make it, just wanted to make sure ppl know about it!)
* End User Forum Discussion on Measuring DevOps Success, Tracy Miranda
    * There will be a discussion/panel on this topic on 31 March
    * [link to Register](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/356fkadm/register) 
* Four Keys Project, Dina Portman
    * Presentation on [Four Keys](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/fourkeys)
    * Follow up discussion on potential collaboration opportunities
* Policy Driven CI/CD, All
    * Discussion on the latest contributions if time permits
    * https://hackmd.io/__6IAnVuR8C8mPD--XMbWg?view
 
#### Action Items
* Steve T to start the work on artifact metadata and bring example from Ortelius
* ~~Fatih D to send mail to CDF SIG/TOC/End User maillists for Dina Portman's visit to SIG Interoperability on March 18th~~
* ~~Kara M to help with Jenkins and CloudBees policy approach~~
* ~~Fatih D to reach out to Cameron for Armory policy approach~~
* ~~Oliver N to upload Project "Piper" presentation to [CDF Presentations repository](https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations)~~
* Fatih D and Tracy M to update SIG Interopereability meeting time to 15:00UTC.

#### Meeting Recording
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H3Lc2URIKXo

### March 4, 2021

#### Participants
* Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)
* Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
* Mattias Linnér (Ericsson)
* Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
* Emil Bäckmark (Ericsson)
* Steve Taylor (DeployHub)
* Oliver Nocon (SAP)
* Andrea Frittoli (IBM)
* Jeremy Stanley (OpenDev/Zuul)
* Andreas Grimmer (Dynatrace)
* Tracy Ragan (DeployHub)

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* Daylight Saving Time Changes, All
    * US@March 14th, Europe@March 28th
    * The meeting on March 18th falls in between...
    * 16:00UTC - 9am for PT, 10am MT, 12noon ET, 4pm BST/CET
    * https://time.is/1600_18_March_2021_in_UTC
* cdCon, All
    * CFP is open, March 5th is the deadline for final deadline
    * Tomorrow is the deadline!
    * https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/program/cfp/
* Heads up on upcoming discussion with Dina Portman, Tracy Miranda
    * Dina will join our meeting on March 18th
    * The project Dina is working on [Four Keys](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/fourkeys)
    * Please do invite additional attendees who may be interested in this work -- from other SIG groups, etc
* Policy Driven CI/CD, All
    * Discussion on the latest contributions
    * https://hackmd.io/__6IAnVuR8C8mPD--XMbWg?view
* Standardized Metadata, James Strachan, Dave Sudia, Steve Taylor
    * [Repository](https://github.com/cdfoundation/standardized-metadata)
    * [HackMD file](https://hackmd.io/BYbkuR8uSlKt_w7Y4KE1OQ)
    * Note: Share and discuss with Dina Portman, as her feedback would be beneficial.
* [Project "Piper"](https://www.project-piper.io/) Presentation, Oliver Nocon
    * JobDSL blog post: https://jenkins-x.io/v3/admin/guides/jenkins/getting-started/#job-dsl
* An abrupt end to the meeting! :-)
* However, we will continue discussing using events to enable greater flexibility and composability between pipelines at the next meeting.

 
#### Action Items
* Steve T to start the work on artifact metadata and bring example from Ortelius
* Fatih D to send mail to CDF SIG/TOC/End User maillists for Dina Portman's visit to SIG Interoperability on March 18th
* Kara M to help with Jenkins and CloudBees policy approach
* Fatih D to reach out to Cameron for Armory policy approach
* Oliver N to upload Project "Piper" presentation to [CDF Presentations repository](https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations)
* ~~Tracy M to get SIG Interop in touch with Dina Graves Portman and invite her to one of the upcoming SIG meetings~~
* ~~Fatih D to create a new document to start the work on Policy Driven CI/CD and send an email~~
* ~~Tracy R to include policy related information from Ortelius and DeployHub Pro on the policy document as examples~~
* ~~Andrea F to include policy related information from Tekton on the policy document as an example~~
* ~~Events & Interop SIGs to provide quotes for CDF announcement of SIG Events - deadline March 1st, Emil, Andrea, Kara, Fatih~~
* ~~Fatih D to add user/project input to policy document based on the discussion from the meeting~~
* ~~Fatih D to add Project Piper to the agenda of upcoming SIG meeting~~

#### Meeting Recording
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LbdMG0O4m6Y

### February 18, 2021

#### Participants
* Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
* Emil Bäckmark (Ericsson)
* Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
* Mattias Linnér (Ericsson)
* Oliver Nocon (SAP)
* Christie Wilson (half!) (Google)
* Tracy Ragan (DeployHub)
* Vibhav Bobade (RedHat)
* Jeremy Stanley (OpenDev/Zuul)
* Andrea Frittoli (IBM)
* Tracy Miranda (CDF)

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* Events SIG, All
    * It is official!: https://lists.cd.foundation/g/cdf-toc/message/614
    * Recording of the discussion on events during CDF Meetup: https://lists.cd.foundation/g/cdf-toc/message/614
* Policy Driven CI/CD, All
    * The document to collect information is available on [HackMD.io](https://hackmd.io/__6IAnVuR8C8mPD--XMbWg)
* Standardized Metadata, James Strachan, Dave Sudia, Steve Taylor
    * [Repository](https://github.com/cdfoundation/standardized-metadata)
    * [HackMD file](https://hackmd.io/BYbkuR8uSlKt_w7Y4KE1OQ)
* Interopability Whitepaper, All
* cdCon, All
    * CFP is open, March 5th is the deadline for final deadline
    * Early bird deadline is February 19
 
#### Action Items
* Dave to start the work on artifact metadata, Steve volunteered to help
* Steve/Tracy R to bring Ortelius standardized metadata example in new repo
* Tracy M to get SIG Interop in touch with Dina Graves Portman and invite her to one of the upcoming SIG meetings
* Fatih D to create a new document to start the work on Policy Driven CI/CD and send an email
* Tracy R to include policy related information from Ortelius and DeployHub Pro on the policy document as examples
* Andrea F to include policy related information from Tekton on the policy document as an example
* Events & Interop SIGs to provide quotes for CDF announcement of SIG Events - deadline March 1st, Emil, Andrea, Kara, Fatih
* ~~Fatih D to contact Tracy R for possible Policy Driven CI/CD presentation to CDF Meetup~~
* Fatih D to add user/project input to policy document based on the discussion from the meeting
* Fatih D to add Project Piper to the agenda of upcoming SIG meeting

#### Meeting Recording
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7fVPnBVTMYA

### February 4, 2021

#### Participants
* Oliver Nocon (SAP)
* Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
* Emil Bäckmark (Ericsson)
* Mattias Linnér (Ericsson)
* Steve Taylor (DeployHub)
* Vibhav Bobade (Red Hat)
* Andrea Frittoli (IBM)
* Gareth Evans (CloudBees)
* Anthony O'Gorman (Fidelity Investments)
* Tracy Ragan, DeployHub / Ortelius
* Dave Sudia (UPchieve)
* Jeremy Stanley (OpenDev/Zuul)

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* FOSDEM 2021, Kara de la Marck, Fatih Degirmenci
    * CI/CD Devroom on Sunday, February 7!
    * Fellow community members [presenting](https://fosdem.org/2021/schedule/track/continuous_integration_and_continuous_deployment/) CDF/SIG
* Policy Driven CI/CD, Fatih Degirmenci
    * [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MHBpzxDqGAp2NYcyNHvCPVOVu2JF_-cVXemvPKWz-JU/edit?usp=sharing)
    * The topic gathered interest.
    * A new document will be created to collect existing approaches to policy to work on this further.
    * It is proposed to bring this topic to the SIG Best Practices and End User Council.
* Standardized Metadata, James Strachan, Dave Sudia, Steve Taylor
    * [Repository](https://github.com/cdfoundation/standardized-metadata)
    * Steve Taylor summarized the updates he made about Git commit SHA on [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/BYbkuR8uSlKt_w7Y4KE1OQ?view#Git-Commit-SHA)
* Ortelius Presentation/Demo, Steve Taylor
    * Presentation given. The meeting recording should be available on Youtube soon.
 
#### Action Items
* ~~Ramin A to bring an example manifest from eBay for metadata topic - Fatih to remind~~
* ~~Tracy R/Steve T to demo Ortelius (manifest/metadata/visibility focused), 21st January~~
* ~~Events in CI/CD workstream to provide input to standardized metadata topic based on their discussions~~
    * The group will come back when there is progress with commit and artifact metadata
* ~~Tracy M to bring the whitepaper to the attention of CDF creative team~~
* ~~Steve to start the work on commit metadata~~
* Dave to start the work on artifact metadata, Steve volunteered to help
* Steve/Tracy R to bring Ortelius example in new repo
* Tracy M to get SIG Interop in touch with Dina Graves Portman and invite her to one of the upcoming SIG meetings
* ~~Kara and Fatih to populate references in whitepaper~~
* Fatih D to create a new document to start the work on Policy Driven CI/CD
* Tracy R to include policy related information from Ortelius and DeployHub Pro on the policy document as examples
* Andrea F to include policy related information from Tekton on the policy document as an example
* Fatih D to contact Tracy R for possible Policy Driven CI/CD presentation to CDF Meetup

#### Meeting Recording
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqoZy4E-ijo

### January 21, 2021

#### Participants
* Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
* Andreas Grimmer, Dynatrace
* Mattias Linnér, Ericsson
* Kara de la Marck, CloudBees
* Christie Wilson, Google
* Tracy Miranda, CDF
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson
* Anthony O'Gorman, Fidelity Investments
* Oliver Nocon (SAP)
* Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev/Zuul
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* Events in CI/CD becoming SIG, Workstream Members
    * EB: Draft charter for the SIG was presented to CDF TOC on January 19. Positive response received.
    * AG: Charter had priority and contribution to standardized metadata is in the backlog.
* Interoperability Whitepaper, Tracy Miranda
    * TM: Work is in progress by the creative team. References is empty and will be .
    * TM: Content will be massaged and visuals will be included.
    * TM: Additional feedback will be asked to the community members.
* cdCon Update, Tracy Miranda
    * TM: CFP is open. 
    * TM: Early bird submissions are open and 5 proposal will be selected and highlighted as Early Bird picks by the programming committee.
    * TM: Proposals are welcome.
    * TM: Hopin platform is integrated with the tool [Miro](https://miro.com) to collaboratively/interactively work on visual material.
* End User Council Update, Tracy Miranda
    * TM: End User Council has its [own repo](https://github.com/cdfoundation/end-user-council).
    * TM: End User Council published 2021 plan and the material is available in [End User Repo on GitHub](https://github.com/cdfoundation/end-user-council/blob/main/End%20User%20Council%20Plan%202021.pdf).
    * TM: There will be discussions relevant to Interoperability area and there will be discussions on the topic in End User Council.
* SIG Interoperability One Year Old, All
    * [Blog post](https://cd.foundation/blog/2021/01/19/cdf-sig-interoperability-2020-year-in-review/) celebrating this 
* [Continuous Delivery Definitions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IUSmgtw5eC2JwyfiX7IPK3twl3MSjWAsmCKmJ6Y5z-w/edit#), [CD timeline](https://github.com/cdfoundation/glossary/blob/main/timeline.md), Christie Wilson
    * CW: The discussion on definitions started in this group so I wanted to give an update to the group.
    * CW: The interoperability whitepaper had a section to describe CI and CD and there were lots of conversations on the topic.
    * CW: One thing I did was to get some progress was to create a timeline to see when/where these things were originated. Both Continues Deliver and Continuous Deployment appeared same year.
    * CW: First appearance of Continuous Delivery was in [Agile Manifesto](https://agilemanifesto.org/principles.html)
    * FD: What about related terms such as DevOps, DevSecOps, GitOps, Progressive Delivery? (https://github.com/cdfoundation/glossary/issues/7)
    * TM: Can help out with them.
    * CW: Jez Humble tries to explain the differences between and reasons for (e.g., business) Continuous Delivery vs Continuous Deployment. (https://continuousdelivery.com/2010/08/continuous-delivery-vs-continuous-deployment/)
    * KM & CW: This topic could feed into the work done in CDF Best Practices SIG.
    * TM: Everybody has a different view on Continuous Delivery and Continuous Deployment. If we say Continuous Delivery is much wider and what other things it compasses.
    * TM: What are the best practices for using SCM, deployment strategy, trunk based development, GitOps, advanced bots, ChatOps.
    * TM: Best Practices SIG started the work recently.
    * AO: [SIG Best Practices](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-best-practices) is a good idea an want to be involved in it.
* Ortelius Presentation/Demo, Tracy Ragan, Steve Taylor
    * Postponed
 
#### Action Items
* Ramin A to bring an example manifest from eBay for metadata topic - Fatih to remind
* Tracy R/Steve T to demo Ortelius (manifest/metadata/visibility focused), 21st January
* Events in CI/CD workstream to provide input to standardized metadata topic based on their discussions
* Tracy M to bring the whitepaper to the attention of CDF creative team
* ~~Tracy M to help with creation of a repo for standardized-metadata, https://github.com/cdfoundation/foundation/issues/262~~
    * Repo is ready: https://github.com/cdfoundation/standardized-metadata
* Steve to start the work on commit metadata
* Dave to start the work on artifact metadata
* ~~Emil to bring Eiffel example in new repo - https://github.com/cdfoundation/standardized-metadata/pull/3~~
* Steve/Tracy R to bring Ortelius example in new repo
* Tracy M to get SIG Interop in touch with Dina Graves Portman and invite her to one of the upcoming SIG meetings
* Kara and Fatih to populate references in whitepaper
* \<addme\>

#### Meeting Recording
* \<addme\>

### January 7, 2021

#### Participants
* Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM
* Oliver Nocon, SAP
* Kara de la Marck, CloudBees
* Dave Sudia, UPchieve
* Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev/Zuul
* James Strachan, CloudBees

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All 
* Archival of 2020 Meeting Minutes, All
    * The minutes of past meetings available [here](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/meetings_2020.md)
* Upcoming Events, All
    * [FOSDEM 2021](https://fosdem.org/2021/), 6-7 February 2021
        * [CI/CD Devroom schedule](https://fosdem.org/2021/schedule/track/continuous_integration_and_continuous_deployment/) published
        * CI/CD Devroom happens on February 7
        * 2 talks from SIG are accepted
            * [The Road to Interoperability in CI/CD](https://fosdem.org/2021/schedule/event/the_road_to_interoperability_in_ci_cd/) by Fatih Degirmenci and Kara de la Marck
            * [Events in CI/CD](https://fosdem.org/2021/schedule/event/events_in_ci_cd/) by Andrea Frittoli
    * [cdCon 2021](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/), 23-24 June 2021
        * TM: CFP opens Monday, January 11th. CFP may stay open until after FOSDEM.
        * TM: SIG Interoperability will be reached out for Birds of Feather session.
        * TM: Registration is already open: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/register/
        * TM: Expectation is to have about 3000 people. (300 already registered.)
* Events in CI/CD Workstream to become a separate SIG, Workstream Members
    * AF: The work on charter started happening and the discussion will happen during the very first meeting of the Events in CI/CD Workstream.
    * AF: The Events in CI/CD workstream meeting will happen on January 18th, 16:00UTC.
    * AF: The working document is here - still WIP: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cuaOHmrvK20WxHxHZZuLif3CW3q1ICZ_RglJRp_IAQ0/edit?usp=sharing
    * FD: The topic of Events in CI/CD workstream becoming top level SIG will be discussed during the next CDF TOC Meeting on January 19th.
    * FD: CDF TOC Meeting logistics/agenda/minutes available here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uBHar55fTInWF9Li4t0lyG3tTC8BRLU0FfBfsgk_Jrs/edit?ts=5c9580be#heading=h.en8cy6hno0c6
    * KM: What kind of collaboration is happening toward CloudEvents?
    * AF: Not much happening with CloudEvents yet but we were thinking of using CloudEvents for transport. Need to check.
* [Standardized Metadata](https://hackmd.io/BYbkuR8uSlKt_w7Y4KE1OQ), James Strachan, All
    * DS: Where should the repo be?
    * FD: The repo will be in CDF organisation.
    * DS: Reached out to CNCF GitOps WG and SIG App Delivery and few people shown interest. Already got contribution for ArgoCD to Rosetta Stone CI/CD document.
* CDF End User Community, Tracy Miranda
    * TM: Very first topic everyone unanomously agreed was measuring DevOps Success. (e.g. MTTR from DORA folks)
    * TM: Link to blog post on measuring Devops: https://cd.foundation/blog/2020/11/05/measuring-devops/
    * TM: There will be discussions on what everyone is doing, how they are measuring.
    * TM: The group is keen on connecting what CDF is doing and the projects and groups under CDF.
    * TM: cdCon 2020 Tekton talk on how to collect metrics and display them on dashboard.
    * TM: This topic could be considered as a focus area within SIG Interoperability and we can schedule a call with the group and Dina Graves Portman.
    * TM: A demo could be made to this group. 
    * TM: There are already open source/propietary tools/dashboards such as Spinnaker, CloudBees so it would be good to get input from them as well.
 
#### Action Items
* ~~Fatih to ping Cameron on Jenkins Spinnaker for whitepaper~~
* Ramin A to bring an example manifest from eBay for metadata topic
* Tracy R/Steve T to demo Ortelius (manifest/metadata/visibility focused), 21st January
* Events in CI/CD workstream to provide input to standardized metadata topic based on their discussions
* Tracy M to bring the whitepaper to the attention of CDF creative team
* ~~Tracy M to help with updating meeting invitation according to what is agreed~~
* Tracy M to help with creation of a repo for standardized-metadata, https://github.com/cdfoundation/foundation/issues/262
* Steve to start the work on commit metadata
* Dave to start the work on artifact metadata
* Emil to bring Eiffel example in new repo
* Steve/Tracy R to bring Ortelius example in new repo
* Tracy to get SIG Interop in touch with Dina Graves Portman and invite her to one of the upcoming SIG meetings

#### Meeting Recording
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=655DDU3_AY8